# GalaxyBattleship
#### Phase 1

I thought Phase 1 of this project was a great way to get refreshed on some of the material we learned early in the semester. One part of this phase that we struggled with was getting the exceptions to pass in grade scope. At first, we created the exception classes in order to raise them properly, but ran into errors when running our code. We then tried to use try and except blocks to raise these exceptions, did not pass in gradescope. We ended up resorting back to raising the exceptions regularly and had to switch around and fix some of the statements where we raised these exceptions. After a lot of moving around and adjusting, we were able to get the exceptions to pass in gradescope. Even though it can be tricky to get some of the tests to pass in gradescope, it helps when it comes to debugging your code and helps ensures that you are on the right track. However,  
the feedback that gradescope provides can be very vague and can be hard to see where the problem is occuring. Overall, I thought Phase 1 of this project was very beneficial when it came to building classes, raising in exceptions, reading in files, and building class methods. I thought that the instructions were very helpful and provided good guidance for the code that was needed. I found Phase 1 to be challenging to get the tests to pass, but it was not super difficult to implement. 

#### Phase 2
I thought that Phase 2 had a similar difficulty level and relevance to Phase 1 of the project. However, I felt that the instructions were not as clear and did not completelty indicate certain steps that needed to be taken for the program to run correctly. We struggled with several aspects of this phase. For example, we had trouble using a random number to check against a ship's point defense and accuracy. Making this comparison came as a challenge to us and took us some time to completelty understand this aspect of the project. Another major obstacle that we faced during this phase was getting the correct damage taken statistic for the dictionary. At first, our calculation for damage taken was producing a number that was far too large. In order to fix this, we changed the way we were calculating the total damage. This also led us astray as out total damage would not move from 0. In order to fix this problem, we performed various tests on all our aspects our project to ensure that they were functioning properly. After all these tests checked out, we found that we needed to generate a new random number to check against our accuracy, evasion, and point defense rather than checking all these values against the same random number. Outside of these challenges, I enjoyed implenting Phase 2 and thought it was interesting writing the method to fire at other ships. I really enjoyed utilizing dictonaries and getting a refresher on some of the material from CS 203. We did have to get more help on this part of the project as we got confused or stuck on several parts. 

#### Phase 3
Strategy 1- We use Lasers to target ships with no shields.
Strategy 2- We use Railguns to target ships with shields. 
Strategy 3- Use Railguns to target ships with very little hull 
Strategy 4-  We use our small ships to finish off low health targets while our battle ships do the heavy lifting. 
Strategy 5- Our ships target ships that have the same size first 
Strategy 6- Avoids firing at enemy ships with a higher point defense 
Strategy 7- We use Torpedos to target small ships with high evasion 
Strategy 8 (our own strategy) - Checking our alive Battleships and then if we have 2 or less dead, we target our enemies Fighter ships. Our own strategy takes into account our own fleet composition by accounting for the amount of battelships we have lost during the simulation and combating this problem.
** Important note: For most of these strategies, we take the composition of the enemy's fleet into account. 

We used a Priority queue as our ADT for this project. We found that this was easiest because often times we were "prioritizing" certain weapons or ships to be used for/be the target. We initially had some difficulty with this because we were unsure how exactly to utilize our queue's and how to use our priority parameter. However, it came together when we decided to use the "health" of our ships as the priority parameter because since it is a minimum priority queue, the lower the health the more priority it has. 

Our biggest challenge during this phase was figuring out which ADT to use and how to sort the health of our own ships and our enemy's ships. We tried several different things first, including a heapsort and regular list. This did not work out, which led us to implement a priority queue that we used to create several different instances of. We created a priority queue for enemy ships with shields, enemy ships without shield, the type of enemy ships, our own ships health, etc. We also struggled to get our simulation after implementing a couple of our strategies. We then realized that we did not acocunt for the length of some of our queues and had to go back and add an extra if statement to ensure that we were not dequeueing from a queue that had a length of 0. We also struggled when it came to understanding some of the instructions during this phase, so we incorporated more of our own ideas into this phase. We really enjoyed figuring out our own battle strategies and having multiple plans of action. In addition, I enjoyed taking into account the enemy's fleet and combating some of their moves against us. 

#### General Feedback
Overall, I thought that this project was very interesting to implement and definitely challenging. Although there were many obstacles when it came to completing this project, it was very satisying when our code started to work and come together. One comment that we had about this project is that we felt that some of the instructions were vague and could steer us in the wrong direction. We often found ourselves having to go to help sessions to get our questions about directions cleared up and to fully understand the project. The help sessions and office hours were a great asset to have when completing this project. I thought that the concept behind this project was very cool and definitely prepared to me think at a higher level. 
